all right welcome everyone to this
week's IPL do you think meeting its
November 11th 2019 yes every week we go
through the stuff that we've done and
that we plan to do and then discuss any
additional items we might have I start
with myself and so in the past week
usually this was just today it came up
and they're still this discussion about
sir day and take support for performance
and I came to the conclusion that for
IPL D there's not really a point using
sturdy because well we need a change
that they don't want to do app spin and
I also looked into perhaps early could
be extended and we still have our staff
working with the rest of the survey
ecosystem but it's just that possible
interests curvy and to extend another
third-party library in a way that we
need you and it's very compatible with
all the other stuff and if you ask I've
asked them the user forum got one reply
which was they're discussing things but
M it does seem to be possible and my
plan still is to write a blog post about
it because the rust community has a call
for 2020 to say what things do you want
to see in the next year for rust and my
item would be I want to be able to
extend a third-party Mario
somehow like it does need to be nice it
just needs to be some way and this yeah
so we'll see if they if they pick it up
or not but that's my plan but I'd
related to this the author of the C bore
kraid discussed on the issue and pink me
that he still would want to have tech
support and now the idea is that he
might fork certain and the way but the
way it works is you really compile it
normally it would use the normal survey
and you won't have
support but then you can add additional
line to your project and then it will
use this fork which is tech support and
then you have tech support but the other
modules will still use this fork version
and basically just work that's the basic
idea currently and I'm unsure if this
will work because I think if you do this
way you can publish those modules public
e-club publicly so you can only have
them in github repositories but we'll
see but anyways so the long story short
is there's two discussions and I would
like to help him because like my hope
would be that we find some way to make
it work and then hopefully convince
other people doing it the same way and
then in the end again convince the
original survey authors that well if
those five people are using the fork and
not the original one why not the
industry but yeah we'll see but
certainly my plan is to also basically
have a plan B and just not using surly
but just yeah make using iconic
correctly but this is kind of like the I
don't like I get like a background thing
I'm working on or like help with but
it's not like the top priority because
as I said it's unlikely that it will go
upstream then there's another great news
is that the text specification it's some
standard that I've been involved with a
bit they have an extension for checksums
and I convinced them to use multi hash
for their stuff and you got merged so in
the next release of the spec which will
be like in end of the year probably they
will have using for the checksums multi
hash and the great news is because they
also plan to get it into the as an
official OGC standard which is like the
the major geo stint standardization
organization and most of the assistants
also become ISO standards so basically
this kind of like this way kind of mod
has bubbles up into an ISO standard
hopefully so it's kind of like that's
pretty
I think yeah so and then on the rough
side of things I've looked into as I
said I want to make the thrust stuff
also work with others so this stuff is I
look into the ecosystem what we have and
I just found out that we have so
critical Epps has done rust multi hash
project but the lip utility team has
faulted for the p2p
so we p2p is not using the upstream
project so what I currently do is I beg
for those pages and to make sure that
basically the p2p and whatever we have
used the same version and yeah so am as
a bigger information the reason is so
the lip p2p rough version is mostly done
exclusively even done by a false from
hurricane and so it's not Piper collapse
and therefore it was just yeah easy if I
see them for forked but I'm so I know
one of the main developers well we've
met so times in the past person so it's
basically it's not so it's a friendly
fork it's not like they want to do
something fundamentally different but
it's just it was faster for them to move
forward so it shouldn't be a big problem
to and they've had an issue open that
they want to go back to upstream so but
that's what I'm working on yeah it's not
it's actually more exciting than you
would think because it's basically made
huge progress because you merged those
upstream patches and get them really
move with one click and yeah make big
progress so it's kind of nice but it's
not like mentally challenging yeah
that's all I have
Eric
yeah some think you've had lots of
standardization stuff so I'm I'm still
hung up on rabbit holes in code gen and
trying to prepare things to be
optimization friendly which is kind of
where I've been for a while and things
are getting a little more resolved but
also just turning up more and more
questions I can't remember exactly what
was the last update I delivered so I
might backtrack a little bit and make
sure that I provide context in one go
here so when doing performance
optimization at all memory allocations
by count usually rather than by size as
well or one of the most major issues so
I've been worrying a lot about how to
design the system to be to amortize
allocations as much as possible in the
last couple of weeks I've learned a lot
more about the compiler internals and
particularly one feature that turns out
to be relevant to us is so we end up
having lots and lots of things escape to
heap because we want to handle them by
interfaces like all of our traversal
code the selector is a bunch of our cool
features like that they all work because
we can turn everything into a node
interface monomorphic
right but for things to be held as an
interface in go they have to be a
pointer so they have to be the almost
always implies that they have to be on
the heap but they definitely have to be
a pointer so one important thing that
I've learned recently is that once you
have one whole structure that's on the
getting
internal pointers into positions in that
same structure is essentially free it
will not cause more heap allocations so
this the good news is this gives us a
way to do lots of amortizations the news
is we still have to make sure to design
the internals
the code to actually do large extent
allocations upfront and then be able to
pluck those pointers out so this is is
still easier said than done
and this turns out to kind of actually
get in conflict with some of the
interfaces that we've already got so in
all the code today like from some of the
very earliest drafts so we'd have a note
interface we've got the matching note
builder interface and the note builder
builds up some value and then when you
call the final build method on it will
return a note that is supposed to then
be read-only and so the overall
semantics of the note builder interface
is you build some small value and then
you build a bigger one and you fill it
with smaller values so that you build up
this way and this is almost exactly the
opposite of what we want to do for
efficiency because we want to start with
a large extend allocation and then fill
it in so it turns out that the interface
itself is it's just going the opposite
direction of the way that the internals
want to go for a long time to go fast so
so the good news from the last couple of
rounds of research is given a bunch of
this knowledge about internal pointers
and stuff we can do a bunch of
optimizations but figuring out how to
make those play within the interfaces
we've currently got it's still extremely
challenging and one possible way forward
would for example be having both a note
builder as it currently is which builds
up from smaller to bigger and then maybe
build another interface in parallel
which does this extent allocation then
fills it in and so that would be one
option but it would increase the amount
of surface area of our code kind of
substantially and that's a little I
don't know if that's a good idea
and another design that I've been trying
to flesh out is if we can have the
innards doing
the extent allocation but then do
something that has almost the same
contract as the note builders already do
and I think the answer that might
actually be yes and that's the model
I've been trying to work on for the last
week or so it gets really interesting
but I think with a sufficiently
well-defined model of visibility where
you only reveal pointers to some part of
the large extent when that section of
the extent is finalized I think it's
possible to do this all in a in a safe
mutable way but it's just gotten
increasingly complicated and it would
also come with some very interesting
constraints around if you use the get
child builder for field method on a note
builder currently the thing that that
returns you is supposed to work within
the bounds of the type right so if
you're asking for the builder for a
field and it gives you the type food
builder you should have spent simply be
able to use that thing more than once to
build several instances of food and if
we tried to do the extent based
allocation stuff then we could actually
cram it all into the same interface but
we would end up with that child builder
that you get for the field because it
would be binding to existing memory it
would no longer hold that contract about
being able to be used to produce more
than one value of that type this is
probably more detail than I should be
going into right now
so basically lots of questions about
what the same interface is for that and
so if somebody wants to talk more about
that later I think I need more than one
opinion and I'll leave it there I see
rod wincing yeah sorry if it's the
correct reaction though it really is if
nothing else I'm working on a big
documentation about things I've learned
about the go compiler memory layout so
that might help have you figured out
where you're gonna put that
my current draft is just sitting in the
cogent directory I don't know if that's
its final resting place but and yeah I
think that's about it I'm really
enjoying by the way reading the huge
amounts of documentation been working on
rod cool then next one is the rod so
aside from the documentation which I
finished off last week well I finished
off the bulk of it last week and that's
I'm happy for that to student review for
a little while but I really would like
to consider getting input from outside
the team so identifying someone or
someone's that could have a look at it
and if they can figure out what we've
been doing for the past few months from
the document then that's a win that
means it's doing what it's supposed to
do so um I don't know what the process
is there maybe we merge it and then get
someone to review it or maybe we get
someone to review it in the state that
it is now I don't know anyway but I'm
glad that you guys are working your way
through it
that's very helpful aside from that I've
moved on to so I've had this itch that
that isn't in needing to be scratched
for a few months now I I've
intentionally disconnected myself a lot
a lot from browser JavaScript which
means that I'm not as attuned to making
my libraries run in the browser and my
testing is all very node focused and
that's not very ideal but I'm also not
satisfied with the state of testing
library code in the browser so I I've
been
the last week have been deep in browser
land and browser testing and puppeteer
and web workers and a bunch of other
things upskilling but also writing some
little utilities to help test better in
the browser and more efficiently than
the options available today and I'm all
and I'm using a a JavaScript C board
Pazza I'm writing one as a way to learn
that that's all that stuff that I'm that
I have gaps in but also using that
project as a way to become more familiar
with C ball as well so is it it's it's
been a week of learning really that's me
cool yeah I also looked like I think a
year ago into the browser testing stuff
because they also saw today like the
current way like what we doing now that
transcript or to do with like the Karma
and whatever it's called stuff is just
insane like it's so heavy way yeah yeah
it's and so I try to use like the UM I
tried some library which uses the tap
format basically and you can just have
like piped to the browser just kind of
work which was kind of nice but I'm not
sure if it will like if it like the the
Perl again it was like the hello world
testing works but anything novel problem
with processes it's more than this yes
yeah that's I mean that's that's really
this is one of the main reasons I
checked out of browser day a few years
ago was the craziness of trying to you
know trying to make things that are
compatible across browsers but just
testing that testing in the browser is
just ridiculous and it really hasn't
improved that much which is just a
ridiculous thing about it since like how
are people satisfied with this but you
know everyone has their little hacks of
getting around it and yeah I mean
selenium is still state of fear and well
I think
the thing that we have is that we we're
in that we're in that that middle area
of we don't care about into n UI testing
we don't need to control a browser to do
to test an interface or the Dom we want
to take library code and say this works
in the browser so it's a it's a subset
of what most people who are operating in
the browser care about and so and it's
that area that's not served very well if
you want to do end-to-end then there's a
bunch of options where you can many of
them using selenium in some form a bunch
of options were options where you can do
that it's just that that vans up to
heavyweight for what we want we just
want to say okay I've got a library that
I expect to be in a browser environment
at some point I want to assert that my
tests run in the browser but I've got oh
I'm having some success on that in so
I'll I'll publish that soon and get some
feedback but I my plan is to go back
over some of the more recent JavaScript
stuff I've produced and and adapt that
with some browser testing because I know
for instance I'm I'm leanin much more
heavily on buffer than I should because
you win a array does a lot of what we
need and if you can avoid buffer and if
you can be if you can avoid being the
library that's responsible for pulling
in the buffer polyfill then that's
that's a positive but as a you know as a
back-end engineer I just I just don't
think about those things I just reach
for the tools that are that are best so
just you know just shifting my thinking
which is a good thing
so yeah cool good is there anything else
[Music]
do you wanna discuss so I just won one
question this just came up today and I
need should put more thought in there
before asking but I'm so like first
you've thought about it already so I'm
so keen to hear the answer is that when
I reviewed the schema documentation
stuff is that the the representation of
let's say a struct yes so you find in a
schema the presentation of a strike how
it should be seriously realized but what
if you want to civilize it for different
formats differently why I'm asking this
so basic background the big run of this
story is that yeah don't yeah but so
just um what I feel obviously the
problem is that for example and
especially with structs
so in schemas we have red cards so I
would call them records which is busy
structs so probably call them but in the
data model we don't have this so in the
data model we only have a list which is
basically the the thing we would put
records into but the point is that for
example in the Rossum interface type so
it's between an upcoming standard for
exchanging data between things is
healthy based on web IDL I further keep
it short so and they basically don't
really define a map type but they only
have a record type which basically means
is in our world it would be strange to
transform it from the schema from struck
into a map then into lists so we can use
it then as a record type instead it
could directly be basically from our
schema into the record time and
everything will be fine but the problem
is again of course if you transfer me to
chase on you were to use the normal map
book and it was just like something that
Betty came to my mind about like yeah is
this something
we like thought about on yeah is it just
we'll see a little bit I think we might
actually have a pretty easy if not yet
documented path to do this because we
can just treat the schema as a as a
document that we can do some transforms
on and so I think I had had a very
similar thought before when we were
doing some of the selector specs stuff
we carried about serial sizes selectors
a lot but we still used maps for
extensibility purposes but so we've
renamed a bunch of fields down a single
character right but that's not what I
want to see when I'm debugging so I was
thinking you know what if we had a
function that took one schema and
transformed it into another schema and
just stripped all of the rename
instructions off and interestingly since
those are those are representation
details that means the schema semantics
are identical so we can actually use
either one of them on the same data very
easily so I think we could do a similar
thing to to make a schema suddenly
conform to the Wasi standards we could
just say okay take the real schema that
we wrote first and then transform it
into another schema where every single
struct is annotated representation tuple
I haven't tried to write any functions
to do things like that but it sounds
like a thing we could do yeah yeah
what's just a yeah yeah this sounds like
a way of doing it it's by the way the
same if we would transform it to Erlang
which is like Erlang doesn't have any
Maps it
well it doesn't so what it has so what
it does it so this was a huge problem
with couch TV as it is in earning so
betting how they do person Chaisson is
they have basically a list of tuples
where the key is basically a tooth to
top I can list of two tuples where the
first element is the key and the second
one is
the value and then yeah this is how they
have a map but they yeah well it's more
like in the like French little
programming the world you don't have
really matters at least internally which
is a pain and so and but yeah for those
cases so pity I was wondering Stu it I
think make sense because really I was
wondering how like how tightly we want
to couple the representation to the
scheme MACD is kind of like the question
or like but if you can use the transform
in that's Ruby yeah and I think this is
worth noting and we maybe haven't yet
but if you're doing a transform on a
schema that only massages the
representation parts of it then there
are certain properties that that
necessarily preserves which is cool yeah
so like if you had some other function
that was going from schema to schema but
it was massaging some other things that
were in like if it was removing or
adding nullable annotations those would
change the behavior right but if they're
just massaging the representation stuff
yeah yeah um again we're gonna get into
trouble with all sorts of things where
we're trying to do we're trying to adapt
to specific environments which is where
we're gonna have to do annotations and
that sort of stuff Cochin is the obvious
place but this this is an extension of
Cochin really basically it's basically
you know we've got this nice layer but
when the rubber hits the road in all
these different environments is going to
be special cases everywhere and I think
we can we can probably adapt to a lot of
them with different encoding formats
like coming up with a new dag something
or other but then others we're just
gonna have to expose specific rules and
that's where we it's gonna get ugly with
annotations but that's gonna be a
necessary evil to make it practical for
people because a lot of consumers of
this stuff are going to be they're going
to be using it in a specific environment
so they
all they care about they don't care
about the fact that this thing is nicely
portable no I just wanted to work in my
environment and I want all the goodies
that come along with it that's true yeah
cool
yep so thanks for for this cushon goes
like this yeah so again I can sleep well
tonight
Sybil needs cool is there anything else
cool then I say goodbye to all the
thousands of people watching the
livestream and yeah goodbye see you next
week
[Music]